# Personal Data

[Third-party cookies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third-party_cookies) are HTTP key-value pairs set in user's browser by websites other than the main one being visited. They have been notoriously used for tracking user actions across websites (mostly for advertisement).

- Tracking is widely seen as a threat to personal privacy, this prompted the creation of regulations against it. Most notably, **GDPR**.
- Responses to regulations against user tracking include **cookie consent** dialogs (i.e., asking users for explicit accept/reject of 3P cookies) or simply **geo-blocking** users from countries with privacy-friendly laws.
- Alternatives approaches include browser-based internet targeting (e.g., Google's [Privacy Sandbox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy_Sandbox)) and [Browser Fingerprinting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Device_fingerprint#Browser_fingerprint)

## Practice

- Visit <https://www.nationalgeographic.com/> in "private browsing" mode.
- Skim through the information from cookie consent, list of vendors, and 3P cookie usage purposes to better understand the practical side of the matter.

## GDPR

An informal description of GDPR boils it down to eight individual rights (from a compliant organization's POV).

<details>
  <summary><b>GDPR Individual Rights</b></summary>
  <ol>
    <li><b>Right to be informed</b>: you can read about how we collect and use your data.</li>
    <li><b>Right of access</b>: you can see the data you shared with us</li>
    <li><b>Right to rectification</b>: you can update your data if incorrect or incomplete.</li>
    <li><b>Right of erasure (to be forgotten)</b>: you can ask us to delete your data from our systems.</li>
    <li><b>Right to restrict processing</b>: you can press "pause" on our use of your data.</li>
    <li><b>Right to data portability</b>: you can export your data in a convenient format</li>
    <li><b>Right to object</b>: you can complain about a use case (e.g., ask not to use your data for marketing).</li>
    <li><b>Rights about automated decisions</b>: you can demand that no big, final decision about you be taken without a human involved to check it.</li>
  </ol>
</details>
<br>

Organizations aiming to comply with GDPR (or any other security standard) utilize tooling to track the tasks that needs to be done and link them to specific articles from the standards being followed.

- Depending on the scale of the organization and the requirements, tooling ranges from basic spreadsheets to ticketing systems to dedicated security solutions (e.g., [Wazuh's white paper on GDPR](https://wazuh.com/resources/Wazuh_GDPR_White_Paper.pdf)).

## Exercise 2

Confirm or deny each of the following statements with respect to GDPR vs. 152-FZ. Provide brief justifications for your answers.

1. An organization must have the user's explicit consent for legal processing of any given personal data
2. If a user asks to be forgotten, the organizations must comply and delete their data.
3. Deleting an individual's name from the records is sufficient when they ask for their data to be deleted.
4. Such laws do not apply to organizations operating outside of the region where the regulation is in effect.
5. It is illegal to transfer personal data outside the region where the regulation is in effect
6. Third-party cookies is not considered personal data
